docs: gauge chart (#48269)
metabase/metabase: docs/questions/sharing/visualizations/gauge.md

# Gauge chart

> Ah, **gauges**: you either love 'em or you hate 'em. …Or you feel "meh" about them, I guess. Whatever the case, gauges allow you to show a single number in the context of a set of colored ranges that you can specify.

Author: Leaving this in? not sure about the tone

Reviewer: Think that's a Maz original meta joke about gauges, we should leave it.

Author: oh my god i didn't even realize it was a meta joke...i love this now

![Gauge](../../images/gauge.png)

## When to use a gauge chart

A gauge chart is useful when you want to show progress or status across different categories.
They're helpful for performance metrics, risk assessments, or any metric that has distinct thresholds.

## How to create a gauge chart

To build a gauge chart, you'll need:

- A query that returns a single number:

  | Sum of Quantity |
  | --------------- |
  | 4910            |

  You can also use a query that returns several metrics in a single row:

  | Sum of Quantity | Average Quantity | Max Quantity |
  | --------------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
  | 4910            | 17.32            | 173          |

>   In this case only the metric in the first column will be used for the gauge chart. To change which number is used for the gauge, rearrange the metrics (for example, by dragging them in the Summarize block in the query builder).

Author: the "for example" part is because I've seen people reorder columns in the table viz first and then build a chart. This won't work - they need to be reordered in the query itself

>   In this case only the metric in the first column will be used for the gauge chart. To change which number is used for the gauge, rearrange the metrics (for example, by dragging them in the Summarize block in the query builder).

Reviewer: Good note.

```suggestion
  In this case, the gauge chart will use the metric in the first column ("Sum of quantity"). To change the metric, go to the editor and drag the metric you want to the first position in the Summarize block.
```

Edit mentions the editor and avoids passive voice.

- One or more ranges for the metric, for example "Low", "Medium", "High". Currently, Metabase only supports defining static ranges (you can't set range boundaries based on another query).

> You can set the ranges, their colors, and optional labels in [chart settings](#gauge-chart-settings).
> 
> ![Gauge chart](../../images/gauge-labeled.png)
> 
> ## Gauge chart settings
> 
> To open the chart setting, click on the gear icon at the bottom left of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Gauge chart](../../images/gauge-labeled.png)

## Gauge chart settings

You can set the ranges, their colors, and optional labels in chart settings.

To open the chart setting, click on the gear icon at the bottom left of the screen.
```

Format options will apply to both the result of the query and the range boundaries:

![Gauge format options](../../images/gauge-format.png)

> In particular, "Multiply by a number" option will be applied to the range boundaries, so if you want to show a range from 2000 to 4000 on the chart, and you use "Multiply by a number: 1000", then the underlying range should be from 2 to 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, the gauge chart will apply the "Multiply by a number" option to the range boundaries. So if you want to show a range from 2000 to 4000 on the chart, you can set "Multiply by a number: 1000", then set the underlying range to be from 2 to 4.
```

> Selecting “Style: Percent” in format options will only change how the result of the query is formatted: for example, `17` will be formatted as `1700%`. If you instead want to display the query result as a percentage of the total range of the chart, you’ll need to calculate that percentage in your query. For example, to display the count of orders as a percentage of 20, use custom expressions to return “Count of orders divided by 20”, and format the result as a percentage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting “Style: Percent” in format options will only change how Metabase formats the results. For example, `17` will be formatted as `1700%`. If you instead want to display the query result as a percentage of the _total_ range of the chart, you’ll need to calculate that percentage in your query. Another example: to display the count of orders as a percentage of 20, use custom expressions to return “Count of orders divided by 20”, and format the result as a percentage.
```

Good examples.

> ## Limitations and alternatives

Reviewer: Just a format thing: lists should not have blank lines.

Good section overall.
